# Installing and Deploying Hubot

Before you install and deploy hubot you are going to need to download the
latest release tarball from https://github.com/github/hubot/downloads. You
should also check you have Node.js and npm installed.

Check you have Node.js installed. If you do not have a version of Node.js
installed you can follow the documentation to get it installed.

    % node -v
    v0.6.13

Check you have npm installed. If you do not have a version of npm installed you
can run the following command `curl http://npmjs.org/install.sh | sh`, to get
it installed.

    % npm -v
    1.1.9

If you're deploying hubot to Heroku you will need to have Ruby and rubygems
installed so you can install and use the `heroku` gem.

    % gem install heroku
    % heroku -v
    2.21.2

Once you have everything setup and ready, it's time to move on and rock and
roll.

## Installing and Deploying Hubot on Heroku

If you are unfamiliar with Heroku, they are a cloud application platform. They
allow you to easily deploy your Ruby, Node.js, Clojure, Java, Python, and Scala
applications. It's free to sign up and create an account and free to host a
single web or worker dyno. Once you've signed up for a Heroku account and
installed the `heroku` gem you're ready to go and authenticate the command line
application with your account.

    % heroku auth:login
    Enter your Heroku credentials.
    Email: heroku@example.com
    Password:
    Authentication successful.

Now you will need to navigate to the directory you downloaded the hubot tarball
to and extract it.

    % cd ~/Downloads
    % tar zxvf hubot-2.1.3.tar.gz

If that extracted successfully you should have an extracted directory called
`hubot`. Next up you you'll initialise the directory as a `git` repository, add
and commit all the files to that new repository.

    % cd hubot
    % git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/tom/Downloads/hubot/.git/
    % git add .
    % git commit -m 'Initial commit'
    [master (root-commit) b361a20] Initial commit
    18 files changed, 598 insertions(+)
    create mode 100644 .gitignore
    create mode 100644 Procfile
    create mode 100644 README.md
    create mode 100755 bin/hubot
    ...
    create mode 100644 scripts/translate.coffee
    create mode 100644 scripts/youtube.coffee

That's the repository committed and ready to push to Heroku. Next up, we're
going to need to create an application on Heroku for hosting our hubot. This is
easily done using the `heroku` command line application.

    % heroku create --stack cedar
    Creating strong-light-4765... done, stack is cedar
    http://strong-light-4765.herokuapp.com/ | git@heroku.com:strong-light-4765.git

This has created an application called `strong-light-4765` in your Heroku
account if you check the web site. We're using the Celadon Cedar stack on
Heroku as that's the stack that currently supports Node.js.

We need to specify the configuration variables next so that hubot knows how to
connect to our Campfire instance. There are many adapters for communicating
with hubot. Hubot comes built in with Campfire and shell adapters. We're going
to use the Campfire adapter in this chapter, but we'll talk about some of the
alternative adapters in the next chapter.

You require three pieces of information for using the Campfire adapter.

* Subdomain for the account (**youraccount**.campfirenow.com)
* API token for the user the hubot will join as (cannot be your own account)
* Comma separated list of room IDs

The account name is fairly simple for you to find. You can find the API token
by logging in as the user your hubot will be running as and clicking the **My
Info** link and copy the token at the bottom. Next up the room IDs you can find
these from the URL when you're in the rooms you want hubot to join. Now we can
set these configuration variables using the `heroku` command line application.

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ACCOUNT=learnhubotthehardway
    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_TOKEN=f2269166594249095d962d1c0cfd69b
    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ROOMS=403967,403966,403964

If you get an error saying that there is no app specified you will have to
prepend `--app=[your app name]` to each command. Adding each configuration
variable will restart the application. Now you can push your hubot `git`
repository to Heroku. Before you do this you should check you have the remote
repository added for Heroku. You can check this by running `git remote`, if you
created the `git` repository before creating the Heroku application, the
`heroku` command line application would have added the remote for you.

    % git remote
    heroku

If you do not have the Heroku remote you can easily add it as a remote
repository.

    % git remote add heroku git@heroku.com:[your app name].git

Now you can go ahead and push the `master` branch to the `heroku` remote
repository and Heroku should handle the incoming push and install/compile
dependencies for hubot.

    % git push heroku master

If the push is successful you should eventually see your hubot instance join
your specified rooms. If you're having issues read back over these instructions
and make sure you've not missed anything out and entered all the correct
configuration information.

## Installing and Deploying Hubot on UNIX

If you do not want to host your hubot on Heroku you can easily host it on your
own UNIX server or local system. When I say UNIX, I am referring to Linux, BSD
and Mac OS X systems.

Installing and deploying hubot on UNIX is very similar to installing and
deploying to Heroku.

You will need to navigate to the directory you downloaded the hubot tarball to
and extract it.

    % cd ~/Downloads
    % tar zxvf hubot-2.1.3.tar.gz

If that extracted successfully you should have an extracted directory called
`hubot`. Next up you you'll initialise the directory as a `git` repository, add
and commit all the files to that new repository.

    % cd hubot
    % git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/tom/Downloads/hubot/.git/
    % git add .
    % git commit -m 'Initial commit'
    [master (root-commit) b361a20] Initial commit
    18 files changed, 598 insertions(+)
    create mode 100644 .gitignore
    create mode 100644 Procfile
    create mode 100644 README.md
    create mode 100755 bin/hubot
    ...
    create mode 100644 scripts/translate.coffee
    create mode 100644 scripts/youtube.coffee

We'll create a simple shell script for exporting the environment variables and
running hubot itself. If you're hosting hubot yourself in a UNIX environment
you'll be able to run the script in Tmux, Screen or even convert it into an
Upstart script for Ubuntu.

Create and edit a `start.sh` in your favourite text editor in your new hubot
directory with the following content. You'll want to change the Campfire
account, API token and room IDs for your Campfire account.

The account name is fairly simple for you to find. You can find the API token
by logging in as the user your hubot will be running as and clicking the **My
Info** link and copy the token at the bottom. Next up the room IDs you can find
these from the URL when you're in the rooms you want hubot to join.

    #!/bin/sh
    export HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ACCOUNT=learnhubotthehardway
    export HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_TOKEN=f2269166594249095d962d1c0cfd69b
    export HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ROOMS=403967,403966,403964
    coffee bin/hubot -n hubot -a campfire

Save this script, and make it executable.

    % chmod +x start.sh

Now you can run `start.sh` to set up the environment variable and run hubot.

    % ./start.sh

You should eventually see your hubot instance join your specified rooms. If
you're having issues read back over these instructions and make sure you've not
missed anything out and entered all the correct configuration information.
