# Hubot Adapters

You may know that hubot comes built in with adapters for Campfire and shell,
but there are plenty of adapters created by third-parties for other platforms.

Some of the more popular adapters include:

* Flowdock
* Google Talk
* HipChat
* IRC
* MineCraft
* Talker
* ... and more

Using an alternative adapter for hubot is very simple and requires minimal
configuration. We will use the `hubot-irc` adapter as an example, although most
adapters follow similar steps in configuring them.

## Configuring Hubot Adapters on Heroku

So you have your hubot set up ready to deploy to Heroku, however you want to
use the `hubot-irc` adapter.

The first thing we need to do is add the `hubot-irc` dependency to your
`package.json` file.

    {
      ...

      "dependencies": {
        "hubot": "2.2.1",
        "hubot-scripts": "2.0.8",
        "optparse": "1.0.3",
        "hubot-irc": "0.0.8"
      },

      ...
    }

As you can see, the `"hubot-irc": "0.0.8"` line was added as a dependency. The
next step is to tell hubot to use this IRC adapter, and that is done by editing
the `Procfile`. We are going to add `-a irc` to the command line.

    web: bin/hubot -a irc -n Hubot

Save this file and we're near the final step, first you need to commit these
changes to the git repository for your hubot.

    % git add .
    % git commit -m 'Add hubot-irc dependency'
    [master 26876de] Add hubot-irc dependency
    ...

Next, configuring the environment variables. The IRC adapter requires only
three environment variables to be configured.

* IRC nickname for hubot
* IRC channels comma separated
* IRC server

There are some additional environment variables that can be configured
depending on the IRC server requires. We can now use the same `heroku`
command to configure these in the same way that we configured the environment
variables for hubot.

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_IRC_NICK=hubot
    % heroku config:add HUBOT_IRC_ROOMS=#room1,#room2,#room3
    % heroku config:add HUBOT_IRC_SERVER=irc.example.com

If you get an error saying that there is no app specified you will have to
prepend `--app=[your app name]` to each command. Adding each configuration
variable will restart the application. Now you can push your hubot `git`
repository to Heroku.

If the push is successful you should eventually see your hubot instance join
your specified rooms. If you're having issues read back over these instructions
and make sure you've not missed anything out and entered all the correct
configuration information.

## Configuring Hubot Adapters on UNIX

If you've decided that you wish to host your hubot on a UNIX system, you can
easily modify the `start.sh` that was shown in the first chapter.

As explained in the Heroku section above we need to edit the `package.json`
to include the `hubot-irc` adapter dependency.

    {
      ...

      "dependencies": {
        "hubot": "2.2.1",
        "hubot-scripts": "2.0.8",
        "optparse": "1.0.3",
        "hubot-irc": "0.0.8"
      },

      ...
    }

Next you'll want to edit the `start.sh` that was created in the first chapter
to use the environment variables for the IRC adapter.

    #!/bin/sh
    export HUBOT_IRC_NICK=hubot
    export HUBOT_IRC_ROOMS=#room1,#room2,#room3
    export HUBOT_IRC_SERVER=irc.example.com
    coffee bin/hubot -a irc -n Hubot

Save this updated script and execute it.

    % ./start.sh

You should eventually see your hubot instance join your specified rooms. If
you're having issues read back over these instructions and make sure you've not
missed anything out and entered all the correct configuration information.

We've outlined how to set up the IRC adapter for hubot in this chapter. If you
want to use another adapter, the repository for the adapter should contain a
README explaining all the configuration options required and any additional
instructions for setting up.
