# Introduction to Hubot Scripts

Your hubot is set up and running. Now you're wondering what the hell can it
even do! Imagine that scene from The Matrix where they are implanting Neo with
all the different martial arts training. This is similar to how hubot works.
Out of the box he can barely give a fifth grader a run for their money. That's
why we have hubot scripts. hubot scripts teach hubot everything you want him
to know about and do.

## What Are Hubot Scripts?

Hubot scripts are a collection, well more like a git repository of scripts
which people from all over the world have contributed to. Scripts range from
the silly to the serious, displaying animated GIFs to managing your companies
continuous integration server.

The repository can be found at https://github.com/github/hubot

Later in the book we're going to look at forking the repository and how to
contribute your own hubot scripts.

## How Are Hubot Scripts Loaded?

Hubot scripts comes as an npm package so you may be wondering how you use them
with your hubot. Each release of the `hubot-scripts` package contains every
hubot script in the repository when it was released. Your hubot instance will
come with a file called `hubot-scripts.json`. This file tells hubot which
scripts to load from hubot scripts.

## Picking Hubot Scripts

So you want to include that awesome script that displays the funny animated GIF
to help motivate your coworkers?

First you are going to want to open your hubot's `hubot-scripts.json` file in
your favourite text editor. In a default `hubot-scripts.json` you should see
something like the following

    ["redis-brain.coffee", "tweet.coffee", "shipit.coffee"]

This means by default your hubot instance will be loading the redis-brain,
tweet and shipit scripts. As you can probably see already, it's pretty much
just a plain old JSON array of scripts relating to file names of the scripts.

Now just add your chosen script to the end of the array. I like to reformat the
file so every script is written on a new line.

    [
      "redis-brain.coffee",
      "tweet.coffee",
      "shipit.coffee",
      "funky-gif.coffee"
    ]

Add your script any where and remember to include the trailing comma! I
personally like to organise the list alphabetically so I can easily find what
I have enabled when going through the repository list of scripts.

You'll want to commmit your changes to the git repository for your hubot.

    % git add .
    % git commit -m 'Enable funky-gif script'
    [master 26876de] Enable funky-gif script

If you're using hubot on Heroku you'll then want to push the changes up to
Heroku.

   % git push heroku master

Otherwise if you're just hubot locally you can just restart your hubot.

## Updating Your Hubot Scripts

Updating the hubot scripts package for you hubot is really simple! When a new
release of hubot scripts comes out it will contain updated and new scripts so
it is a good idea to keep your hubot's scripts up to date.

You are going to want to open `package.json` in your text editor of choice. You
will notice the `hubot-scripts` dependency in that list. You're going to want
to update the version number to the latest release of hubot scripts when it
comes out.

    "dependencies": {
      "hubot": "2.3.0",
      "hubot-scripts": ">= 2.0.0",
      "optparse": "1.0.3"
    },

Then after changing to update to the latest version of hubot scripts.

    "dependencies": {
      "hubot": "2.3.0",
      "hubot-scripts": ">= 2.1.0",
      "optparse": "1.0.3"
    },

Now we need to commit the change to the git repository for your hubot.

    % git add .
    % git commit -m 'Update hubot-scripts version'
    [master 26876ce] Update hubot-scripts version'

If you're using hubot on Heroku you'll need to push the changes up to Heroku.

    % git push heroku master

Else if you are just running hubot locally you can simple use `npm` to update
the local dependencies and restart hubot.

    % npm update
    % ./start.sh

Hopefully your hubot will be running the latest version of hubot scripts and
you can follow the instruction in the above section about picking scripts for
your hubot to use.
