# Writing Your First Hubot Script

Now you understand what hubot scripts are you would like to get stuck into
writing your own scripts. My goal with this book is to help more people
understand hubot and how to write scripts for him.

The good thing about hubot is that he comes with a type of REPL which will
allow you to easily test your scripts without having to redeploy over and over.
To get the REPL running you just need to run `bin/hubot` without any arguments.

    % bin/hubot
    Hubot>

Now you should be able to enter hubot commands as normal, for example the ping
commands.

    Hubot> hubot ping
    Hubot> PONG
    Hubot>

Due to the asynchronous nature of hubot, the REPL isn't exactly that great, but
it works! You may have some latency with commands that trigger a HTTP request
or long running task.

To exit the REPL you can just use `exit`.

    Hubot> exit
    %

When you're creating scripts whether they are going to remain private or you
are going to contribute them to hubot scripts you can throw them into the
`scripts` directory of your hubot and they will automatically be loaded.
This makes testing your script extremely easy.

## Hello World

As your first hubot script we'll write a simple hello world example. We'll
write a script that when we greet hubot he will greet us back. We'll then
expand the example throughout this section exploring the scripting API for
hubot.

Create and open `scripts/hello-world.coffee` in your text editor and we'll
begin explaining the simplest hubot script.

    module.exports = (robot) ->
      robot.respond /hello/i, (msg) ->
        msg.send "hello"

So there you have it. The simplest hubot script one can write. Let's examine
each step of the script so you can begin to understand what it's doing.

First up, we're using Node.js so modules need to export behaviour. We're
exporting a function which accepts a parameter we're calling `robot`. The
parameter is the instance of the `Robot` class that hubot is using. We'll look
deeper into the actual core of hubot later in the book. The `robot` parameter
gives us access to the three important functions.

 * `robot.respond`
 * `robot.hear`
 * `robot.router`

In the above example the next line is using the `robot.respond` function. It is
fairly simple, it takes a regular expression that you would like hubot to match
and a callback which accepts a single parameter.

Many people ask what is the difference between the `respond` and `hear`
functions. The easiest way to remember what each does is that `respond` will
match messages that are directed at hubot himself for example:

 * hubot ping
 * hubot: ping
 * @hubot ping

The `hear` function can match messages which don't have to be directed at
hubot. In our hello world script we're choosing the match a message when
someone says 'hello' to hubot.

The callback function is what is called when a message is matched. It's worth
noting that messages can match more than one message handler in hubot.

The parameter passed to the callback is an object containing information about
the message, any regular expression matches and functions to send messages back.

* `msg.message` which contains the properties `user` and `text`
* `msg.match` an array of regular expression matches
* `msg.send` sends a message to the chat service
* `msg.reply` sends a message to the chat service directed at the user who sent
  the original message

So you can see our callback just sends the message 'hello' back. If you run
your hubot REPL to try out the script.

    % bin/hubot
    Hubot> hubot hello
    Hubot> hello
    Hubot>

Pretty cool right? Not really, but it can only get better from here. Let's make
this script a little bit more personal and make sure that hubot addresses the
user who says hello.

As I described above the `reply` function of the message object we are passed
back will directly address the user when sending a message back. If you edit
the script we just wrote and change out the `msg.send` for `msg.reply` then
rerun hubot and say hello to him again you should be addressed directly this
time.

    module.exports = (robot) ->
      robot.respond /hello/i, (msg) ->
        msg.reply "hello"

Now if you say `hubot hello` you should get a familiar answer.

    % bin/hubot
    Hubot> hubot hello
    Hubot> Shell: hello
    Hubot>

You may be wondering where the name 'Shell' came from. Well there aren't really
any users associated when using the shell adapter, so the 'default' user is
called 'Shell'.

You're not really a fan of greeting people with 'hello'? Maybe you're a 'hey'
or 'howdy' type of person. Let's edit our script so that hubot can recognise
multiple types of greeting and reply with the same greeting back.

The first parameter of the `robot.respond` function takes a regular expression,
this means we can use that to match the multiple different greetings. For the
sake of saving some time I won't explain the regular expression, you can search
around to find a tutorial for those.

    /(hello|hey|howdy|good day)/i

So this is the regular expression we are going to use. It will match the
following greetings.

* hello
* hey
* howdy
* good day

We also get passed the matches for the regular expression to the message object
parameter of the callback. This will let us grab the greeting and tell hubot to
use that one when replying back.

    module.exports = (robot) ->
      robot.respond /(hello|hey|howdy|good day)/i, (msg) ->
        msg.reply "#{msg.match[1]}"

There you have it. Now if you save the script a rerun hubot you will be able to
greet hubot with different greetings and have him reply with the same one.

    % bin/hubot
    Hubot> hubot hello
    Hubot> Shell: hello
    Hubot> hubot howdy
    Hubot> Shell: howdy
    Hubot>

Now you are familiar with how to write a hubot script and the basics of sending
messages back to the room and user you can move onto the next section where we
learn how simple it is to make HTTP requests and use the responses in a hubot
script.

## Making HTTP Requests in Hubot

Making HTTP requests in a hubot script is extremely easy! This is due to the
usage of Rick Olsen's scoped-http-client library. Let's look at an example of
using scoped-http-client outside of hubot.

    scopedClient = require 'scoped-http-client'
    util         = require 'util'

    client = scopedClient.create('http://github.com/api/v2/json')
      .header('accept', 'application/json')
      .path('user/show/technoweenie')
      .get()(err, resp, body) ->
        util.puts(body)

Here we're requiring the scoped-http-client and utils modules. We then create
a new client and specify the base URL of the request, in this case is the old
GitHub API. The next method in the chain `header` is setting a header that
says we accept JSON as a response. You can use the `header` method to set any
number of headers you require for your request. The next method `path` is
setting the path of the URL we wish to request.

## Using the Hubot Brain

Coming soon...
